>>CHANTEL WESTERMAN:
Thank you, Cheryl,
for sitting down with us.
With a title of a book like
"Take Time for Your Life,"
people have to pull it
off the shelf every day
because it's something
we all don't do.
>>CHERYL RICHARDSON: Right.
>>CHANTEL: Did you write the
book because there was a time
when you didn't take
time for your life?
>>RICHARDSON: Absolutely.
I think probably the
underlying driving force
of why I wrote the
book is I went back
over 20 years of
journals that I had kept,
and in the last 10
years of my journals,
my number one
complaint was that I
didn't have time for the things
that were important to me.
And then when I began
developing a private practice
as a coach seven years ago,
the number one complaint
of my clients were that
they didn't have enough time
for their lives as well.
So I began working on
the book without a title.
I wasn't sure exactly what
I was going to call it.
And one day it just
occurred to me that I just--
I had done--
I had made some changes that
allowed me to reclaim my life
and that that's exactly
what I wanted the book
to do for my readers and
"Take Time for Your Life"
would be a great thing to call.
As matter of fact
it was originally
called "Make Time for Your
Life," and my assistant--
my terrific assistant Stacy said
that sounds like too much work.
You really want to-- you might
want to use the word "take."
And I went that's it,
"Take Time for Your Life."
That's exactly it.
>>CHANTEL: Very
interesting because when
you say take time
for your life, you're
making a choice to take it.
>>RICHARDSON: That's right.
>>CHANTEL: To own it.
That's the very-- that's the
most important message I think
that I give in the beginning
of the book is that we--
it's so easy to fall
victim to the job
that you have to stay at
even though you hate it
because you need
the money or it's
easy to believe that
well I've got a family
to raise so I have to
keep running from 6:00 AM
until midnight.
I think the most
crippling excuse of all
is that we don't have a
choice about how we live,
and I'm saying right up front in
the book you do have a choice.
Sometimes you have
really tough choices
like leaving a job
you can't stand
or dedicating a year to
paying off your debts
so that you really
can leave a company.
But we can't confuse tough
choices with no choices.
We all have choices
about how we live.
And when we exercise
that choice,
immediately magical things
start to happen in our lives.
>>CHANTEL: I think
you're so right,
and I think that when we
feel we do not have a choice,
one of the things that happens
to us is we are paralyzed.
>>RICHARDSON: Right.
>>CHANTEL: I've stood--
>>RICHARDSON: That's right.
>>CHANTEL: I've stood in my
living room thinking I have 18
things to do today, and
I can't take a step--
>>RICHARDSON: That's right.
>>CHANTEL: To go anywhere.
So how do we begin
to change that?
>>RICHARDSON: Well, the truth
is that the whole profession
of coaching that's been
you know wildly seen in
the media now has really
taken off because most of us
know what it is we ought to do.
And a lot of us
do feel paralyzed
with all there is to take
care of during the day.
It's doing it
that's the problem.
And so that was actually
a challenge for me
when I wrote the book because
I knew that a book couldn't
replace a person who
was on your side saying,
yes, you can do it.
What are you going
to do this week?
Let's check in again next
week and see what you've done.
But what I hope to do-- and I've
done it because I've heard from
readers all over the country
that have read the book--
is to provide practical
actions, practical simple
steps along with inspiring
clients' stories and examples
of how things miraculously start
improving in people's lives
by just doing one easy
doable thing at a time.
And I think the other
thing that's important--
and it's really the basic
philosophy of my work--
is one of what I call
extreme self care.
And that means that when you
do have those 18 things to do
and you're feeling totally
overwhelmed and paralyzed,
that's not the time
to get into action
and try and do
anything because when
we're the most overwhelmed,
we're the least resourceful.
In that moment, the
best thing you can do
is to sit down, close your
eyes, take a deep breath,
grab a cup of tea, or get
into a hot bath or something
and just start to relax
and get centered again.
Because when we connect
with our inner wisdom, which
is the foundation of
an authentic life,
then you'll know the
smart choices to make.
You'll be able to
look at the list of 18
and say which one's most
important for me to do next
instead of what most people do,
which is if I just get this one
last thing done, if I just get
the dishes into the dishwasher,
then I'll be able to relax.
If I just make this
one last phone call,
then I'll be able to relax.
Oh, if I just answer
that one last email,
then I'll be able to relax.
Well, the inbox of
life never empties.
There's always one
more thing to do.
And what we need to do
is say wait a second.
It's the relaxing piece
that has to come first.
>>CHANTEL: Yes.
>>RICHARDSON: Because when we
reconnect our head and our body
because most of us
are so disconnected,
then we make better choices.
>>CHANTEL: One of
the many things
I enjoyed about your book
was that you looked at
not only the professional, the
business, the financial aspect
of our lives that
is overwhelming
but also the emotional.
And you talked about
toxic relationships,
people who drain the
energy from our lives.
Is there an area--
the professional,
business, financial as
opposed to the emotional--
that is better to begin with.
>>RICHARDSON: Well,
it was interesting.
When I was writing the
book, my biggest challenge
was that I had to take a
non-linear intuitive process,
which to me is what
coaching is, and put it
into a linear practical form.
>>CHANTEL: Yes, you did.
>>RICHARDSON: Yes.
When I'm working with clients,
I start right where they are.
So if you were to come to me
and say my financial life is
a wreck, I'd say great
let's start right there
and look at what you
need to do to handle it.
Or I'm feeling totally
overwhelmed and exhausted,
I'd say great.
Let's make a list
of the 10 things
that are draining your
energy, and let's start
handling them right now.
You've got 30 days
to get it handled.
And I'd support
you in doing that.
But I couldn't do
that in a book.
I couldn't start
where the reader was.
So I would say to
the reader read
the book through once quickly--
>>CHANTEL: And take the quiz.
>>RICHARDSON: And
take the quizzes.
Yes, the what's
draining you test--
I know.
I know-- and the what's
fueling you test.
>>CHANTEL: Wow.
>>RICHARDSON: Those
were real eye openers.
That's why the publisher put it
on the end papers of the book
because it opened the
eyes of a lot of people
that read the manuscript
before it got published.
Take the tests, read
through the book.
I intentionally made
the book simple and easy
to read because
I don't have time
to plow through long
and difficult books.
I wanted it to be a
conversation with the reader,
and I wanted the reader to be
able to go through and then
identify, oh,
where's the chapter
that you'd most
like not to work on.
>>CHANTEL: Yeah.
>>RICHARDSON: That's
probably the one
you need to work on first.
>>CHANTEL: Right.
>>RICHARDSON: So if you feel
overwhelmed and exhausted,
go to the what's draining
you chapter, take the test,
make your top 10
procrastination list,
and then start handling it.
If you're feeling like
you've got your life pretty
well handled but you're
missing a significant other
or you're missing high quality
relationships, most of us
are fed up with the
cocktail level of life.
We want deeper
connections with people.
If you're missing that in
your life, go to chapter 6
and start doing it-- take--
doing the work in that chapter.
So once you go through it once,
I say start where you are,
and what matters most
of all is taking action.
That's all I care about,
doing something different.
>>CHANTEL: Let's talk a
little bit about the chapters
that I think most
people would migrate
to, different
parts of our lives,
different times of our lives.
Of course, we go to
different arenas.
But I was really
intrigued by the chapters
on what is draining
your life because I hear
so many people in this business
and other businesses saying I'm
so drained.
It's a term I hear a lot.
So let's talk about what
drains people's energies.
>>RICHARDSON: Well
what's draining you,
it's actually my favorite
chapter in the book.
>>CHANTEL: Is it?
>>RICHARDSON: It is.
It's my favorite
workshop to teach
because it's the one that
can have the quickest
impact in people's lives.
Most of us-- if you were to
imagine that there are cords
of energy running from you
to everything that's undone
or incomplete in your life--
so, for example, you
go to your closet
to get ready for work and you
pull out your favorite suit
and you notice the button is
missing and I still forgot--
can't believe I keep forgetting
to get the button fixed.
It's taking energy through this
little cord right out of you
even after you shut
the closet door.
Or you get into your
car and you think,
oh, I've got to get
this car vacuumed
or I keep forgetting
to get the oil changed.
That's draining your energy.
Sometimes the drains are
even bigger-- an aging parent
or a medical
problem that demands
your constant attention
or the tax returns that
haven't been filed.
That's like a pipe running
from you to the tax returns.
Most of us are running on less
than a half a tank of fuel.
I'd like to imagine
that when we're born,
we have a full tank of gas.
>>CHANTEL: Yes.
>>RICHARDSON: And as we
go through life and all
the responsibilities--
we take on all these
responsibilities.
We have all these
things we have to do.
Before you know it, our
fuel starts going down
and down and down.
And most people say they feel
totally exhausted and drained.
The tough part
about that is when
you feel totally drained you're
not motivated to do anything.
>>CHANTEL: Right.
>>RICHARDSON: And
so, once again,
I think what's important to
know is you start with 10 items.
What are the 10 things that
you keep thinking about
that you keep meaning to do that
you keep procrastinating about?
Some of the common items
on my clients' list
were things like
going to the dentist,
going to the doctor,
relationships that drain you.
Popular conversation throughout
the country as I travel around,
everybody has somebody
who's draining their energy.
And as you just simply make
a list of those 10 items
that are draining
your energy and you
start handling them, very--
it's as if we ignite
a divine power that
supports our every effort.
And I'll give you
an example of that.
I was doing a talk
at a bookstore,
and there was a woman
in the audience who
was a massage therapist.
And I was talking about
what's draining you.
And I said to the audience
make a list of the 10 things
that are draining your energy.
Tomorrow when you wake
up, start handling them
and then pay attention to
what shows up in your life.
Well, the next day at
5:00, I got a call from--
I received a call from
this massage therapist who
said this morning I woke
up, I made my top 10 list,
I handled the first four
items, and I can't believe it.
I received phone calls
from three new clients
this afternoon.
Now to most people
that would sound
like a magical coincidence, but
I've got hundreds of stories
like that.
Or I used to-- when I was
coaching people in business
let's say an attorney,
and the attorney
would say I'd really like
to bring in more business.
I'd say, great.
Clean out a filing cabinet.
That's a marketing strategy.
>>CHANTEL: Yes.
>>RICHARDSON: Get your
office cleaned up.
Get rid of the
stuff in your life
that is draining you not
only on a physical level
but all of the stuff we hold
on to either in our lives
or in our head drains us on an
emotional, spiritual, physical,
and intellectual level.
If you've ever had
a box of old papers
or files in your basement that
maybe represented love letters
from past boyfriends or
girlfriends or divorce
papers or the things that
we're emotionally attached to,
when you finally
pick that box up
and you get it
out of your house,
you feel like a
different person.
Let's start by having you
identify some of your energy
drains so then we can talk
about how do you handle it
and what do you do if you have
clutter all over the place
and you think but I can't part
with those-- that information
or I can't part
with those magazines
or I'm afraid to
let this stuff go.
How are we going to deal
with those kinds of things?
So first we're going to
look at relationships.
There are people in my life who
continuously drain my energy.
So I want you to think is
there someone in your life
that's draining your energy.
If so, write their name down
unless of course they're
sitting next to you.
Don't do that.
Write somebody else's
name down or a little code
name or something.
I have unreturned phone
calls, emails, or letters
that need to be
handled, the kinds
of things that are
weighing on your mind,
like, oh, I really have
to write to Aunt Mary.
It was over a month ago, and
she probably hates me now.
I feel a void in my life of
either a significant other
or friendships.
That, too, can
drain your energy.
You're walking around feeling
lonely wishing that you
had a partner in your life.
It's siphoning off
energy all the time.
There's a relationship in
my life that I need to end.
That's a big energy drain.
I remember I was working with
a gentleman, a doctor, who
had had a practice,
and he had hired me
because his practice
started to really dwindle.
And during the course
of our coaching work
together, he kept talking about
this woman that he was dating
and how unhappy he was and
they were always fighting
and it wasn't working out.
And every now and
then he'd say I really
just need to end
this relationship.
And I would just
mirror that back, you
keep talking about
that a lot and you
keep saying you want to
end this relationship.
You might need to consider it.
Well, as time went on, I was
planting the seed, mirroring
back what I was hearing.
As time went on, it
became very clear
that the relationship
was definitely
impacting his business.
And I remember one time
sitting in his office,
we were doing a coaching
session, and I said to him--
I'll call him Sam--
I said, Sam, it's time for
you to end this relationship.
If you don't, this relationship
is going to kill your business.
I remember he stepped back
a little bit when I said it
because that's the hardest
thing in the world to do
is to end a relationship.
But this is something
he had been telling me.
So I said look you do
whatever you need to do.
You get whatever support you
need-- therapist, friends,
support group, whatever--
to get this handled.
Otherwise, you're going
to lose your business.
Took him three months, he
put some support in place,
ended the relationship
three months later,
and his business increased
by 50% within 30 days.
Fifty percent within 30
days, it was amazing.
That represent--
imagine what a huge pipe
that was taking energy.
All of a sudden he cuts it
off and handles it and boom,
all this energy-- remember
we're talking about energy
on multiple levels here.
It's not just physical energy.
It's on psychic, intellectual,
spiritual, and emotional energy
as well.
>>CHANTEL: What do
you say to people
in terms of the energy
draining area when there's
a relationship and
it's someone who's
very difficult to
disconnect from because I
see your point about
disconnecting from someone
saying I can't do this anymore.
I choose not to
have you in my life.
What do you do if it's a
parent, a husband, and a wife,
a boyfriend, girlfriend?
What do you do when
it's somebody--
it's easy to say--
>>RICHARDSON: That's right.
>>CHANTEL: But you
can't really do it.
>>RICHARDSON:
Well, first of all,
this is a really
important question
because I get asked this
everywhere I go to speak.
And there's a couple
things I want to say first.
First of all, I think that
the relationships in our lives
are the most sacred
things we have.
I was very blessed many years
ago to spend the last month
with a very dear friend of mine
of her life before she died,
and I was able to
experience firsthand
the kinds of things
we think about when
we're lying on her deathbed.
It's not how much
money we made, it's not
how successful we were in our
careers, it's who loved us
and who did we love.
So I think relationships
are sacred.
That said no one has
the right to drain
your energy consistently.
I don't care whether
it's a mother,
a father, a wife, a husband,
doesn't matter to me.
Because as a coach
and in my work,
I am committed to
helping people raise
the quality of their lives.
I'm committed to helping
them not settle for less.
So what does that mean?
It means that usually
we're missing language
that we can use to communicate
with the person who's
draining us in a
gracious and loving way.
So, for example,
let's imagine-- we'll
take an easier one-- let's
imagine that you have
a friend that calls
you every week,
and she complains
about her boss.
And it's getting
to the point where
when you hear her
voice on the voicemail,
you think, oh, I don't
even want to call her back.
You can feel it in your body
like the energy's already
starting to get
sucked out of you.
Well, it's important-- if
you care about that person--
because see the first step is to
try and heal the relationship.
I'm not saying if they're
bugging you, get rid of them.
I'm saying transform
the relationship first.
So you call your friend,
Mary-- we'll call her Mary--
and you say, Mary,
you know what,
in an effort to honor
our relationship,
I need to tell you the truth.
That's a great line for any
conversation about a draining
relationship.
In an effort to honor
our relationship,
I need to tell you the truth.
>>CHANTEL: Yes.
>>RICHARDSON: When
you call me every week
complaining about your boss,
I feel drained afterwards.
And it's starting to
affect our relationship.
As a matter of fact, I
find myself even wanting
to avoid your phone calls.
I don't want that to
happen to us, Mary.
So here's what
I'm willing to do.
If you're willing to do
something about your boss,
I'll support you 100%.
But if you want to call and just
complain and whine about it,
I can't do that anymore.
Now you have that conversation.
When Mary calls
you the next week,
which depending on how
challenging she is,
she very well may do that.
And she's going to test you.
You see when you start
to take care of yourself,
the universe will test you
to see how committed you are.
So Mary may call, and she starts
to have this conversation.
And she starts going down
that path about her boss,
you have got to back up
boundaries with action.
Mary, before you go any further,
remember the conversation
we had last week?
Tell me what you're
going to do about it.
I'm behind you 100%.
You want to complain, I
can't talk to you right now.
It's because I love you
that I'm saying this.
You can do the same
thing with mom.
And I'll tell you,
I had one client
I worked with whose
mother was brutal.
Called her every day, was
emotionally abusive to her,
just not--
>>CHANTEL: Yeah.
I imagine that happens a lot.
>>RICHARDSON: It happens a lot.
The very first thing I would
say as a coach is you've
got to get the support
of a very good therapist.
Coaching isn't therapy,
and I'm not a therapist.
And the first thing I do is
really encourage that client
to get some support.
And then I would work
with that client.
Once again I'd say
I don't care if it's
your mother or your father.
Nobody has the right to
rob you of your life.
Period.
>>CHANTEL: Well, in a
sense, though, after reading
your book, I must say it's
like you are a soul therapist.
>>RICHARDSON: I would be
really pleased to hear
that because now that I've been
doing my work for seven years,
I honestly feel like my
job-- the reason that I
came here-- was to
help clients listen
to the voice of their soul.
Sometimes they hear it
and I mirror it back,
and sometimes they
can't but I can hear it
underneath their words.
And if I can help them to create
a life based on that voice,
I will die a very happy woman.
>>CHANTEL: It's interesting
that as I travel across America
with wisdom, I find that there
is a huge wave of spirituality.
It's like we all have holes
in our collective souls.
You must find that as well.
You start off with
take time for your life
and you think it's going to
be finances and energy drain
and always it must drift
into the area of soul work.
>>RICHARDSON: Yes.
Well, here's what I think
now that the book is out
and I've written it a
year and a half ago.
We are so perpetually
outwardly focused.
We live in a culture that has
us looking outside constantly.
>>CHANTEL: Yeah.
>>RICHARDSON: We live
from the neck up.
Adrenaline has become the
drug of choice in America.
And we're so busy running
from one appointment
to another that we're
disconnected from our bodies
and how we feel as
well as our intuition.
In addition to that, yes,
the information age is here,
and, yes, we've been
promised that the information
age will set us free.
But all it's done is
perpetuated the myth
that true wisdom lies
up here when in fact it
lies right here.
>>CHANTEL: There's a
great chapter in your book
where you talk about the
importance of connecting
the mind to the heart.
>>RICHARDSON: That's right.
That's right
connecting [INAUDIBLE]..
>>CHANTEL: How does one do that?
I was so impressed with that.
>>RICHARDSON: If I could write a
second book on just that alone,
I would.
>>CHANTEL: Yes.
>>RICHARDSON: Because I
think that ultimately,
we've got to get--
I'm committed to helping
people shift their vision
from the outside in.
You see, that's where
the void is coming from.
Nothing outside of
us can fill that.
And a lot of us have
heard that by the way.
A lot of people say,
oh, external things
aren't going to make you happy.
But at this point we're
smart enough to know that.
But what we don't
hear enough about
are practical ways to
reconnect on the inside.
The very best way
I know of quite
honestly is to get up every
morning, open up a journal,
and write at least three
or four pages of whatever
comes to mind.
Julia Cameron said this a long
time ago in "The Artist's Way,"
and she was absolutely right.
I heard that, and I've been
a journal writer for years
but not consistent.
I heard that, I write three
pages minimum every morning
without fail.
I care what city I'm in.
I don't care what's
up for the day.
I get up early enough to do it.
And what that does is it starts
bringing my focus inward.
I start paying attention to
what's going on inside of me.
We also need to spend
time with ourselves.
I talk about taking a sacred
date night or a date afternoon
every single week.
Right now, I would encourage
readers, viewers to go ahead--
take out your calendar,
your date book,
and for the next six
months, schedule a time just
for you in your appointment
book in ink, not pencil,
that you'll set
aside just for you.
And then know this--
>>CHANTEL: Alone.
>>RICHARDSON: Alone.
>>CHANTEL: That's important
that our viewers know that.
>>RICHARDSON: This is about
re-establishing a connection
with you.
>>CHANTEL: Yeah.
>>RICHARDSON: That's
where true security lies.
It doesn't come from money.
It doesn't come
from relationships.
It doesn't come from jobs.
This is why the great
meditators for years have said,
oh, you want nirvana, go inside.
Well, sure but when you combine
that with adrenaline addiction,
nobody can sit
still long enough.
So now the first
thing we need to do
is use some practical steps to
slow the body down so that you
consistently on a
daily basis start
spending time with yourself.
And by the way,
when you do schedule
that time in your
appointment book in ink,
once again, I want you to
know that you will be tested.
The minute you schedule Sunday
night as your sacred time,
mom's going to call
and say, Jan, I
need you to take me
shopping Monday night--
Sunday night.
It's the only time I can go.
Please, will you do that.
And the answer is, no,
mom, I'm not available.
Period.
And once the divine catches on
that you really mean business,
you'll stop getting
tested, and you'll
find that life will
just naturally start
to settle in around the
time that you set aside
for yourself.
And by the way, I'd increase it.
When I was working with
clients, individual clients,
if they were self-employed, I'd
have them scheduled two days
during the week,
one in their office
where they never answered
the phone and one where
they were completely
away from their business.
>>CHANTEL: Well, you are a
bright and shining example
of your book.
And actually I look
forward to your next book--
>>RICHARDSON: Thank you.
>>CHANTEL: Where you talk about
the ways and the importance
of connecting your
mind to your heart.
So that's your next
assignment in life.
Write that book.
>>RICHARDSON: Thank
you very much.
>>CHANTEL: Thank you so much.
What a pleasure it
is to talk to you.
>>RICHARDSON: Pleasure
to meet you, too.
>>CHANTEL: Thanks.
>>RICHARDSON: Thanks.